# IP Address Calculator in Python
#### Video Demo:  https://youtu.be/REmvJnPyxLM
#### Description: I made a console based calculator that helps calcluate subnets in Python. When provided with a valid IP address and subnet length, it returns the correct network address for that subnet.
#### (Quick primer, IP addresses have a network and host segment based on the subnet length. The subnet length determines which first number of bits are in the network segment, which cannot have its value changed, and anything after that is free for the network administrator to manipulate. The ability for us to manipulate the host segment of the IP address gives us the IP Address range of a specific network. It is often required for us to calculate this on the spot.)
#### For the program, I first prompted the user to enter their IP address, and filtered out any strings that did not fit the format of them. If the user inputs an IP address that is out of range, then I made the program quit. I wanted initially to loop back to the beginning, but since I'm splitting the IP address into a list, that wasn't possible, so I had to make that change.
#### After that, I asked users for an subnet length between 1 to 32. Any invalid responses are subsequently discarded and the user is prompted again. For this I imported the sys library from python and used the sys.exit function with an error code of 1.
#### Then, I splitted the IP addresses into a list, then conducted some manipulation with the numbers. I first determined which octect of the IP address I should manipulate from the subnet length. If it's 1 to 8 the first, 9 to 16 the second, 17 to 24 the third, and 25 to 32 the fourth. After determining which octect I need to manipulate. I then ran the modulus function on the subnet length to check up to how many bits of the octect I should change. I then basically turned every octect and value after a certain bit in the IP address into 0 and obtained the network address.
#### After storing the value of the network address into my IP address list, I joined them back into a string and printed it to the terminal. That's essentially how I designed my program. I wanted to design something that relates to my profession as a network engineer, and I think that this can help others who may not be as confident in calculating IP addresses mentally perform their tasks a lot easier.
#### I wrote the majority of the program in 1 file on the terminal. That's because that for terminal based environment, which is very often for routers and switches, there really isn't too much room to deal with libraries and dependencies when installing software. Considering that the work environment of my target audience mostly works at a terminal, having the calculator in 1 file means it's a lot more lightweight, and the lack of visual design elements means it can work perfectly fine on a terminal without any extra bloat. Furthermore, Python scripting is a very common thing for network engineers, which means that all of the machines we touch essentially can run python to begin with, so I do not have to worry about anyone one who needs to use this piece of software being unable to run it.